# lance-catalog-urllib3-client
**Lance Namespace Specification** is an open specification on top of the storage-based Lance data format  to standardize access to a collection of Lance tables (a.k.a. Lance datasets). It describes how a metadata service like Apache Hive MetaStore (HMS), Apache Gravitino, Unity Namespace, etc. should store and use Lance tables, as well as how ML/AI tools and analytics compute engines (will together be called _\"tools\"_ in this document) should integrate with Lance tables.
A Lance namespace is a centralized repository for discovering, organizing, and managing Lance tables. It can either contain a collection of tables, or a collection of Lance namespaces recursively. It is designed to encapsulates concepts including namespace, catalog, metastore, database, schema, etc. that frequently appear in other similar data systems to allow easy integration with any system of any type of object hierarchy.
In an enterprise environment, typically there is a requirement to store tables in a metadata service  such as Apache Hive MetaStore, Apache Gravitino, Unity Namespace, etc.  for more advanced governance features around access control, auditing, lineage tracking, etc. **Lance REST Namespace** is an OpenAPI protocol that enables reading, writing and managing Lance tables by connecting those metadata services or building a custom metadata server in a standardized way. The detailed OpenAPI specification content can be found in [rest.yaml](./rest.yaml).


This Python package is automatically generated by the [OpenAPI Generator](https://openapi-generator.tech) project:

- API version: 0.0.1
- Package version: 0.0.1
- Generator version: 7.12.0
- Build package: org.openapitools.codegen.languages.PythonClientCodegen

## Requirements.

Python 3.8+

## Installation & Usage
### pip install

If the python package is hosted on a repository, you can install directly using:

```sh
pip install git+https://github.com/GIT_USER_ID/GIT_REPO_ID.git
```
(you may need to run `pip` with root permission: `sudo pip install git+https://github.com/GIT_USER_ID/GIT_REPO_ID.git`)

Then import the package:
```python
import lance_catalog_urllib3_client
```

### Setuptools

Install via [Setuptools](http://pypi.python.org/pypi/setuptools).

```sh
python setup.py install --user
```
(or `sudo python setup.py install` to install the package for all users)

Then import the package:
```python
import lance_catalog_urllib3_client
```

### Tests

Execute `pytest` to run the tests.

## Getting Started

Please follow the [installation procedure](#installation--usage) and then run the following:

```python

import lance_catalog_urllib3_client
from lance_catalog_urllib3_client.rest import ApiException
from pprint import pprint

# Defining the host is optional and defaults to http://localhost:2333
# See configuration.py for a list of all supported configuration parameters.
configuration = lance_catalog_urllib3_client.Configuration(
    host = "http://localhost:2333"
)



# Enter a context with an instance of the API client
with lance_catalog_urllib3_client.ApiClient(configuration) as api_client:
    # Create an instance of the API class
    api_instance = lance_catalog_urllib3_client.NamespaceApi(api_client)
    create_namespace_request = lance_catalog_urllib3_client.CreateNamespaceRequest() # CreateNamespaceRequest | 

    try:
        # Create a new namespace
        api_response = api_instance.create_namespace(create_namespace_request)
        print("The response of NamespaceApi->create_namespace:\n")
        pprint(api_response)
    except ApiException as e:
        print("Exception when calling NamespaceApi->create_namespace: %s\n" % e)

```

## Documentation for API Endpoints

All URIs are relative to *http://localhost:2333*

Class | Method | HTTP request | Description
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
*NamespaceApi* | [**create_namespace**](docs/NamespaceApi.md#create_namespace) | **POST** /v1/namespaces | Create a new namespace
*NamespaceApi* | [**drop_namespace**](docs/NamespaceApi.md#drop_namespace) | **DELETE** /v1/namespaces/{ns} | Drop a namespace
*NamespaceApi* | [**get_namespace**](docs/NamespaceApi.md#get_namespace) | **GET** /v1/namespaces/{ns} | Get information about a namespace
*NamespaceApi* | [**list_namespaces**](docs/NamespaceApi.md#list_namespaces) | **GET** /v1/namespaces | List namespaces
*NamespaceApi* | [**namespace_exists**](docs/NamespaceApi.md#namespace_exists) | **HEAD** /v1/namespaces/{ns} | Check if a namespace exists
*TableApi* | [**get_table**](docs/TableApi.md#get_table) | **GET** /v1/tables/{table} | Get a table from the namespace
*TableApi* | [**register_table**](docs/TableApi.md#register_table) | **POST** /v1/table/register | Register a table to a namespace
*TableApi* | [**table_exists**](docs/TableApi.md#table_exists) | **HEAD** /v1/tables/{table} | Check if a table exists


## Documentation For Models

 - [CreateNamespaceRequest](docs/CreateNamespaceRequest.md)
 - [ErrorResponse](docs/ErrorResponse.md)
 - [GetNamespaceResponse](docs/GetNamespaceResponse.md)
 - [GetTableResponse](docs/GetTableResponse.md)
 - [ListNamespacesResponse](docs/ListNamespacesResponse.md)
 - [RegisterTableRequest](docs/RegisterTableRequest.md)


<a id="documentation-for-authorization"></a>
## Documentation For Authorization

Endpoints do not require authorization.


## Author




