# Rust API client for lance-catalog-reqwest-client

**Lance Catalog** is an OpenAPI specification on top of the storage-based Lance format.
It provides an integration point for catalog service like Apache Hive MetaStore (HMS), Apache Gravitino, etc.
to store and use Lance tables. To integrate, the catalog service implements a **Lance Catalog Adapter**,
which is a REST server that converts the Lance catalog requests to native requests against the catalog service.
Different tools can integrate with Lance Catalog using the generated OpenAPI clients in various languages,
and invoke operations in Lance Catalog to read, write and manage Lance tables in the integrated catalog services.



## Overview

This API client was generated by the [OpenAPI Generator](https://openapi-generator.tech) project.  By using the [openapi-spec](https://openapis.org) from a remote server, you can easily generate an API client.

- API version: 0.0.1
- Package version: 0.0.1
- Generator version: 7.12.0
- Build package: `org.openapitools.codegen.languages.RustClientCodegen`

## Installation

Put the package under your project folder in a directory named `lance-catalog-reqwest-client` and add the following to `Cargo.toml` under `[dependencies]`:

```
lance-catalog-reqwest-client = { path = "./lance-catalog-reqwest-client" }
```

## Documentation for API Endpoints

All URIs are relative to *http://localhost:2333*

Class | Method | HTTP request | Description
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
*NamespaceApi* | [**create_namespace**](docs/NamespaceApi.md#create_namespace) | **POST** /v1/namespaces | Create a new namespace. A catalog can manage one or more namespaces. A namespace is used to manage one or more tables. There are three modes when trying to create a namespace:   * CREATE: Create the namespace if it does not exist. If a namespace of the same name already exists, the operation fails with 400.   * EXIST_OK: Create the namespace if it does not exist. If a namespace of the same name already exists, the operation succeeds and the existing namespace is kept.   * OVERWRITE: Create the namespace if it does not exist. If a namespace of the same name already exists, the existing namespace is dropped and a new namespace with this name with no table is created. 
*NamespaceApi* | [**drop_namespace**](docs/NamespaceApi.md#drop_namespace) | **DELETE** /v1/namespaces/{ns} | Drop a namespace from the catalog. Namespace must be empty.
*NamespaceApi* | [**get_namespace**](docs/NamespaceApi.md#get_namespace) | **GET** /v1/namespaces/{ns} | Get information about a namespace
*NamespaceApi* | [**list_namespaces**](docs/NamespaceApi.md#list_namespaces) | **GET** /v1/namespaces | List all namespaces in the catalog. 
*NamespaceApi* | [**namespace_exists**](docs/NamespaceApi.md#namespace_exists) | **HEAD** /v1/namespaces/{ns} | Check if a namespace exists
*TableApi* | [**get_table**](docs/TableApi.md#get_table) | **GET** /v1/namespaces/{ns}/tables/{table} | Get a table from the catalog
*TableApi* | [**register_table**](docs/TableApi.md#register_table) | **POST** /v1/namespaces/{ns}/register | Register a new table in the given namespace. A table represents a lance dataset.  In Lance catalog, a table must be hosted in a namespace. 
*TableApi* | [**table_exists**](docs/TableApi.md#table_exists) | **HEAD** /v1/namespaces/{ns}/tables/{table} | Check if a table exists


## Documentation For Models

 - [CreateNamespaceRequest](docs/CreateNamespaceRequest.md)
 - [CreateNamespaceResponse](docs/CreateNamespaceResponse.md)
 - [ErrorResponse](docs/ErrorResponse.md)
 - [GetNamespaceResponse](docs/GetNamespaceResponse.md)
 - [GetTableResponse](docs/GetTableResponse.md)
 - [ListNamespacesResponse](docs/ListNamespacesResponse.md)
 - [RegisterTableRequest](docs/RegisterTableRequest.md)


To get access to the crate's generated documentation, use:

```
cargo doc --open
```

## Author



